# Creative Project 5 Project Specification

## Overview
For your fifth and final(!) creative project, you will get practice creating your own SQL 
table and querying it. As with other CPs, this creative project
is designed to prepare you for the last homework of the quarter. 
However this being our last creative project, it is also your 
chance to wrap up your creative project work with a final portfolio you can 
publish, showcasing your exploration of web programming throughout the quarter. 

As always, we encourage you to explore the new material covered in class, as well as
related (but optional) content we may link to along the way, as
long as you follow the CSE 154 code quality guidelines. This is your chance to:

1. Continue to build a websites that you can link to on your resume or code 
   portfolio (CPs can be public, most HWs cannot be).
2. Ask instructors and/or TAs about features you want to learn how to implement (we can
   provide more support for CPs than HWs) and ask for feedback/ideas on Piazza.
3. Apply what you're learning in CSE 154 to projects you are personally interested in and
   may use outside of just a CSE 154 assignment.
4. Optionally showcase your CP work on the CSE 154 Au CP showcase (we'll try to showcase 8-20
   websites per CP).
5. Get feedback on code quality when learning new technologies in CSE 154 to implement for
   the following HW, which will be worth more points.

## Ideas for CP5
As long as you meet the requirements outlined below, you have freedom in what kind of
website you create. Here are some ideas for Autumn 2018 (Your instructors are more than
happy to help discuss more ideas in their office hours!):
* Continue to build off of your work for CP4 but add a database component to the project. 
* The code from lecture, section and lab are always good places to start. However, 
if you choose to use that as "starter" code you must a) cite that you are using 
the course code as a starting point and b) you must substantively change the output. You
**may not** use the data from our provided `.sql` files as your own.
* While the focus of this CP is to primarily give you practice with working 
with PHP connecting to a database, it could also be an opportunity to work 
on a full stack application including HTML/CSS/JS front end as well as your 
PHP/MySQL web service!
    
## External Requirements
* Write a `setup.sql` file with code that creates at least one table with at 
least 3 different columns.
* Write at least two queries using the table(s). At least one query must be 
in `setup.sql` and at least one query must be in a PHP file that handles your web service. This PHP web service needs to successfully connect to a database to perform at least one database action.
Specifically: 
  * One query should insert at least one row into the table.
  * One query should return a filtered selection from the table (a SELECT query).

## Internal Requirements
* Your project must include the following two files at a minimum:
  * **new:** `setup.sql` - the file that contains the initial database creation code and at least one query. 
  * A `.php` file that can be called as a web service (using GET or POST requests) to connect and query your database. 
* **new:** Your code in `setup.sql` should be valid MySQL as covered in lecture/section/lab. That is calling 
`source setup.sql` in MySQL should not result in any errors.
* **new:** Your code in `setup.sql` **must** contain queries that **you wrote yourself** and were not generated by exporting from phpMyAdmin or the like. 
* **new:** Your PHP file should appropriately use GET parameters for readonly requests, and 
POST parameters for any requests that modify the database in any way. 
* Your PHP web service should use `isset` to check for required GET and POST parameters before using them.
* Your PHP web service should specify the correct content type with the `header` function before
  outputting any response, and should only set this when necessary (it's common for students to set
  this multiple times in their first PHP programs)
* Your PHP code should not generate any HTML (though you may check with instructors for exceptions to this rule depending on the context of your project)
* **new:** You should use `pdo` statements to connect to and query your database as demonstrated in class. 
* Decompose your PHP and JS by writing smaller, more generic functions that complete one task rather than a few larger "do-everything" functions - no function should be more than 40 lines of code.
* Localize your variables as much as possible. You should not use any global variables as per the code quality guide, and your PHP code should have at least one function.
* Your HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP should demonstrate good code quality as demonstrated in class and
  detailed in the [CSE 154 Code Quality Guidelines](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse154/18au/resources/styleguide/index.html). 
  Part of your grade will come from using consistent indentation, proper naming conventions, curly brace locations, etc. 
* Your page should include 
  [school appropriate content](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse154/18au/syllabus/conduct.html#content) 
  and [copyrights and citations](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse154/18au/syllabus/conduct.html#copyright). 
  If we find plagiarism in CPs or inappropriate content, **you will be ineligible for any points on the CP**. Ask the 
  instructors if you're unsure  if your work is appropriate.

## Style and Documentation
* Place a comment header in each file with your name, section, a brief description of the assignment, and the files contents. 
* Document your PHP functions in a similar manner to our JSDoc requirements (e.g. `@param` and `@returns`). You may also use official [PHPDoc](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PHPDoc) if you'd like. 
* HTML and CSS files must be well-formed and pass W3C validation. 
  Links to the [Code Validators](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse154/18au/resources/index.html#validators)
  can be found on the course website.
* Your JS code must pass [JSLint](https://oxford.cs.washington.edu/cse154/jslint/) with no errors. 
* To keep line lengths manageable, do not place more than one block element on the same line or begin a block element past the 100th character on a line.

## Grading
This CP will be out of 8 points and will likely be distributed as: 
* External Correctness (4 pts) - The external requirements listed in this document are met. 
* Internal Correctness (2 pts) - The internal requirements listed in this document are met. 
* Style and Documentation (2 pts) - The style and documentation requirements in this document are met.  

## Late Day Challenge
You can earn one extra late day for successfully meeting the following additional requirements:
* Creating and populating at least two different tables.
* Using a multi-table query to join at least two of these tables properly by use a primary key from 
one table to the other when joining. You may write your multi-table query using the JOIN keyword or an equivalent WHERE clause as discussed in class.
* Your multi-table query must be used as part of a response output by your PHP.

